
When discussing how Morse code works, people don’t talk about “short blinks” and “long blinks.” 
  Instead, they refer to “dots” and “dashes” because that’s a convenient way of showing the codes 
  on the printed page. In Morse code, every letter of the alphabet corresponds to a short 
  series of dots and dashes, 

Sending Morse code with a flashlight requires turning the flashlight switch on and off quickly for 
  a dot, and somewhat longer for a dash. To send an A, for example, you turn the flashlight on and 
  off quickly and then on and off not quite as quickly, followed by a pause before the next character. 
  By convention, the length of a dash should be about three times that of a dot. The person on the 
  receiving end sees the short blink and the long blink and knows that it’s an A.

Receiving Morse code and translating it back into words is considerably harder and more time consuming 
  than sending because you must work backward to figure out the letter that corresponds to a 
  particular coded sequence of dots and dashes. If you don’t have the codes memorized and you receive 
  a dash-dot-dash-dash, you have to scan through the table letter by letter before you finally 
  discover that it’s the letter Y. The problem is that we have a table that provides this translation:
      Alphabetical letter → Morse code dots and dashes
  But we don’t have a table that lets us go backward:
      Morse code dots and dashes → Letter of the alphabet

Morse code is said to be binary (literally meaning two by two) because the components of the code 
  consist of only two things—a dot and a dash. That’s similar to a coin, which can land only on 
  the head side or the tail side. Coins that are flipped ten times can have 1024 different 
  sequences of heads and tails.


Braille and Binary Codes:
We know that there are six dots and that each dot can be either flat or raised, so the total number 
  of combinations of six flat and raised dots is 2 × 2 × 2 × 2 × 2 × 2, or 26, or 64. Thus, the 
  system of Braille is capable of representing 64 unique codes. It’s not necessary for all 64 codes 
  to be used in Braille, but 64 is definitely the upper limit imposed by the six-dot pattern.

Upon close examination, you’ll discover a pattern in the Braille codes for the 25 lowercase letters. 
  The first row (letters a through j) uses only the top four spots in the cell—dots 1, 2, 4, and 5. 
  The second row (letters k through t) duplicates the first row except that dot 3 is also raised. 
  The third row (u through z) is the same except that dots 3 and 6 are raised.

Since the days of Louis Braille, the Braille code has been expanded in various ways, including 
  systems to notate mathematics and music. Currently the system used most often in published English 
  text is called Grade 2 Braille. Grade 2 Braille uses many contractions in order to use less paper 
  and to speed reading. For example, if letter codes appear by themselves, they stand for common words.

As early as 1855, some advocates of Braille began expanding the system with another row of two dots. 
  Eight-dot Braille has been used for some special purposes, such as music, stenography, and Japanese 
  kanji characters. Because it increases the number of unique codes to 28, or 256,


Anatomy of a Flashlight:

Most Americans believe that the incandescent lightbulb was invented by Thomas Edison, while the
  British are quite certain that Joseph Swan was responsible. In truth, many other scientists and 
  inventors made crucial strides before either Edison or Swan got involved.

Protons and electrons have a characteristic called charge. Protons are said to have a positive (+) 
  charge and electrons are said to have a negative (−) charge, but the symbols don’t mean plus and 
  minus in the arithmetical sense, or that protons have something that electrons don’t. 
  The + and − symbols indicate simply that protons and electrons are opposite in some way. 
  This opposite characteristic manifests itself in how protons and electrons relate to each other.

The batteries used in flashlights are usually cylindrical and labeled D, C, A, AA, or AAA 
  depending on the size. The flat end of the battery is labeled with a minus sign (−); the 
  other end has a little protrusion labeled with a plus sign (+).

To get one amp of current, you need over 6 quintillion electrons flowing past a 
  particular point per second. That’s 6 followed by 18 zeros, or 6 billion billions.

we don’t actually add and multiply in Boolean algebra. Instead, the + and × symbols mean something 
  else entirely. The + symbol in Boolean algebra means a union of two classes. A union of two classes 
  is everything in the first class combined with everything in the second class. For example, 
  B + W represents the class of all cats that are either black or white.





