- Operational versus analytical data:
● Operational data
  Data used for the operation of the business, including sales, transactional data, inventory, and 
  so on. This data is what the company runs on—if something interrupts this data, the organization 
  cannot function for very long. This type of data is defined as Online Transactional Processing 
  (OLTP), which typically involves inserting, updating, and deleting data in a database.
  
● Analytical data
  Data used by data scientists and other business analysts for predictions, trending, and other 
  business intelligence. This data is typically not transactional and often not relational—it may
  be in a graph database or snapshots in a different format than its original transactional form.
  This data isn’t critical for the day-to-day operation but rather for the long-term strategic 
  direction and decisions.

- Architectural Decision Records
  One of the most effective ways of documenting architecture decisions is through Architectural Decision 
  Records (ADRs). ADRs were first evangelized by Michael Nygard in a blog post. An ADR consists of a 
  short text file (usually one to two pages long) describing a specific architecture decision. 

- For each architecture decision, we will be using the following ADR format with the assumption that 
  each ADR is approved:
- ADR: A short noun phrase containing the architecture decision
- Context: In this section of the ADR we will add a short one- or two-sentence description of the problem,
  and list the alternative solutions.
- Decision: In this section we will state the architecture decision and provide a detailed 
  justification of the decision.
- Consequences: In this section of the ADR we will describe any consequences after the decision is
  applied, and also discuss the trade-offs that were considered.
  
- Finding an objective outcome for a fitness function is critical. However, objective doesn’t imply 
  static. Some fitness functions will have noncontextual return values, such as true/false or a numeric 
  value such as a performance threshold. However, other fitness functions (deemed dynamic) return a value
  based on some context. For example, when measuring scalability, architects measure the number of concurrent
  users and also generally measure the performance for each user. Often, architects design systems so 
  that as the number of users goes up, performance per user declines slightly—but doesn’t fall off a 
  cliff. Thus, for these systems, architects design performance fitness functions that take into account
  the number of concurrent users. As long as the measure of an architecture characteristic is objective, 
  architects can test it.

- Definitions:
  Orchestrated coordination: A workflow is orchestrated if it includes a service whose primary 
    responsibility is to coordinate the workflow.
  Choreographed coordination: A workflow is choreographed when it lacks an orchestrator; rather, the 
    cservices in the workflow share the coordination responsibilities of the workflow.

- The four main users of the Sysops Squad ticketing application are as follows:
Administrator
  The administrator maintains the internal users of the system, including the list of experts and their 
  corresponding skill set, location, and availability. The administrator also manages all of the billing
  processing for customers using the system, and maintains static reference data (such as supported 
  products, name-value pairs in the system, and so on).
  
Customer
  The customer registers for the Sysops Squad service and maintains their customer profile, support 
  contracts, and billing information. Customers enter problem tickets into the system, and also fill 
  out surveys after the work has been completed.
  
Sysops Squad expert
  Experts are assigned problem tickets and fix problems based on the ticket. They also interact with the
  knowledge base to search for solutions to customer problems and enter notes about repairs.
  
Manager
  The manager keeps track of problem ticket operations and receives operational and analytical 
  reports about the overall Sysops Squad problem ticket system.



